They'd give me some flour sometimes and some sugar
and coffee. I'm a coffee drinker. And tobacco. I
have that to buy, but clothes, things, I don't buy
that. Well, I buy some meat. They give me some meat
sometimes. You're about 85 now, aren't you? Sir?
You're about 85 years old? Yes, sir. 85. And they
treat me fine. I don't find a bit of fault. I ain't
had no clothes to buy. since I've been on the
project. And I've been on it, I think, about nine,
well, eight or nine years, I believe. But I
believe. But I believe.
He was talking about in the old war, time, the old
slavery time. I can remember when I can remember
when the Yankees come through and they carried my
father, they carried two sisters and one brother.
And they left me, and I can remember when my missus
used to run in the garden upon the Yankees and tell
us if they come, don't tell them where they're at.
Told them don't tell nobody where they're at when
they come. They all come and told me don't get
scared now and tell them. who are the years. I told
them no. He told them no. And when they come and ask
for them, I told them I didn't know where they were.
They was in the woods. And that was at the house. And
my father, when my father left, he carried, he went
away with the Yankees and carried two girls and one
son, the oldest one. Carried them with him. And
they beat the Yankees. And I can remember that. And
my old missus was named Miss M. And the master was
named Mr. Frank Irving. Mr.
Frank Irving. Did they treat you pretty good? Yes,
they treated me nice. They treated me nice as they
could treat me. And then after they left, after
they died, then I was still here. I've been here
until yet. And the white folks all been treating me
modernized ever since it moved me. They treat me on
now. It knows me. They treat me nice. I came up over
here from Mr. Young, from over to Fulton, Auburn,
and come to Mr. Young's place up here. And he kept me
there until he died, him and his wife. And then I
come on in from that, on down here, and I'm here yet.
And they all treat me nice. All the white folks that
know me, they treat me nice. And if I want anything,
I'll ask for it. I was taught it that way by my old
master. Don't steal, don't lie. And if you want
anything, ask for it. Be honest in what you get.
That's what I was raised up with. And I'm there to be
today.
What's the government been doing for you here?
They've been treating me fine. Ever since I've
been here with the government, they treat me nice.
I was in an old house down there. They took me out of
the old house and put me up there in a good house
where they could take care of me. And I'm in there
yet. I don't find no fault. any more food to eat, any
clothes to wear. They've been treating me just as
nice as they can. I can't find no fault. Pretty,
pretty happy, then. Yes, sir.
I take care of the children. Tend to the children.
Just like, you know, we bring a whole lot of
children, you know, and put them down, you know, in
one house. But if somebody have to look over them,
you know, and tend to them that way. That's a house
full of little children. And if you want to act bad,
you know, they whoop you. They whoop you too. And if
the old woman didn't tend to the children, they'd
whoop her too. You know, to make her tend to the
children, she wasn't doing nothing. But she
wasn't a cryptic woman like me, you know. She
wasn't a cryptic woman satisfied. She wasn't a
cryptic woman like me. And they'd whip her. And
they had trays. I don't know where you see the tray.
Wooden trays dug out, you know, all about that
long. And all of them, you know, would get around
that tray with spoons and just eat like that
because I ate out of the tray. With spoons, you
know, and eat such as like moisture soup or
something like that. A few of them, you know,
before 12 o'clock. And all them children would get
around there and just eat, eat, eat, eat all that
down. And that old woman, you know, she would tend
to her. Her name ain't Tisha. Yeah, I know that old
woman. Her name ain't Tisha. It's like slopping
hall. It's just like a tray, you know. It's just
like a tray, you know, you have. It's made just like
a hog trough, you know. In clothes, you know,
they'd wash them things and scald them out for the
children. I didn't see them scald, but that's what
they told me, they'd scald them out, you know, for
the children. And them children eat out of that
thing, and just with spoon. If one reached his
spoon over in the other's hand, over in the other's
plate, he got hit him. Hit him, and it would knock
that spoon back in on his side, on his side. And that
was when we were children, you know. Wasn't able to
tend to no other children. I had a brother, though,
he couldn't tell the children. And, you know, just
sit him down in a corner and put this child, you know
how little children put this child between his leg
and didn't hold his hand around his child. That's
why he couldn't stand up with him, couldn't, you
know, just nothing, you know, shake him this way in
the arms. I can remember that. I had a brother named
Wright. And he just shake that child, sit him in the
floor. It was too little to pick him up. Yes, sir.
And if that child kicked much, he'd kick him over
too, you know, and the woman would come down, spike
him, and get the child back in his home. And they had
certain times to come to them chums, and to come to
them chums, and to come to them chums. Kyle, I say,
would go to the calf, you know. Uh-huh. You know,
they'd have certain time. Now, Kyle come to his
calf at night. Well, they'd come at 10 o'clock,
every day, 10 o'clock, to all them babies. Them was
nice, you know. Them who didn't nurse, they didn't
come to them at all. The old lady fell. It wasn't big
enough to eat, you know. The old mother had time to
come. When that horn blowed, it blowed a horn for
the mothers, you know. They just come just like
cows. It's funny, you know, coming to the
children. Out of the field. Out of the field. How
long did you nurse the baby? A couple of years? How
long would they nurse a baby until it was big enough
to walk, I guess? Yeah, something about nine
months or something like that, you know. They'd
get big enough, you know, to eat. To get to eat. And
they'd come to, all the time, come down and nurse
that baby at ten o'clock. Ten o'clock in the day.
Twice a day? Yes, ma'am. Ten o'clock in the day and
three o'clock in the day. They'd come to that baby
and nurse it. Twice a day? Yes, and twice a day. Come
there and nurse that baby. He couldn't eat, you
know. But one could eat, he wouldn't come till
dinner time. But one little one who couldn't eat,
he'd come to it. That old woman had a time of that
sort, I'm sure. Yes, and I knew that. And I
remember, you see a scar up in my forehead? Kind of
scar. I had slipped out and some boys was throwing
and knocked the scar in my head when I was little.
Oh, it's way up here. It's right underneath your
hairline. Yes. When I was little. Slippin' off out
there in the old woman's slopping room. I called
it, because that's where it's further. Yes, and
that's called Boy Full of Rockin' Hittin' Here.
When I was young, you know, it hit me. When I was
little. Coming on out there, I called it old lady's
slopping room. But there's a house, you know,
where it fed all the children. I call that a slop
room, where it fed all the children. Who did the
cooking for the plantation? I don't know what the
old woman's name done the cooking. Miss Clement
did tell me here not long ago who done the main
cooking. You know, they didn't cook in the kitchen
like that. They have an off kitchen, off from the
house. Yes, sir. And then packed it, you know, to
the kitchen. Packed it to the kitchen. They didn't
have, there wasn't cooking in their kitchen,
dining room. I was a very big girl when I know that
Mrs. Benjamin had a kitchen and a dining room mixed
together. I was a big old girl. They cooked, you
know, on the outside. Right in the yard, but no,
they cooked it out there. And then brought it to the
house. Brought it to their kitchen. when I was a
child. They had some of the slaves who worked in the
house and then some who worked on the yard, isn't
that right? No, them working in the yard, men
working in the yard some nights, but them there who
worked in the kitchen, they didn't have nothing to
do in the yard. And they had one, one, you know, to
make up beds, and one to make up beds, you know, and
one to cook. And then they go, they have 60 times,
make a bed, and then they go to feel. And they had a
regular nurse, you know. The nurse, you never did
see an old mister with the baby, never in no time.
They had a regular nurse. It's like, you know,
you'd hire somebody's nurse, but be a grown woman
nurse. Tend to that baby. And we keep them, because
never did, never did care to old mister. Daddy was
hungry night or day. Now, Daddy was hungry. They
carried that to her. They tended that baby. That
baby slept with the nurses and all of them. Yes,
they slept with them. Didn't have nothing to do.
Carry the baby and sit there and tell the nurse. And
then after the nurse, you know, then you carry it
back, tend to it. You didn't have to just, she tend
to it, you know, and give it to you. You give it to her
and nurse it, how cold it is. And you carry that baby
back on in that room where you was. Well, did the
mistress nurse the baby, or did she have them? She
nursed from the breast. But see, she nursed this
baby after he'd be hungry. Well, the nurse would
bring it to her and let her nurse it. And then when
she nursed, she'd hand it right back, night or day,
you know. She'd take that baby night and day and
hand it back to her. If that baby was any kind of
sick, that nurse had to sit up there and night and
tend to it. You never did, huh? Ma'am? You never
would take care of it like that. No. The nurse had to
do it. No. Well, you see, that's done now, my dear.
That's right. So it's not done now, my dear. Well,
my niece's granddaughter here, she take care of
baby, and her mother hardly ever take it. And she
said, you know, they say you sleep at times. She
never do hardly ever take it. I know a lot of women do
that, don't you? Don't think of them. No, I don't
think of them. Well, do you remember any of the
slaves being sold? Do you remember any slave
sellers? You know, men that were just buying
sales. No, sir. I never did see it. I sure never did
know of that, you know. We heard talk of it, but then
Irene got us after slaves, Irene. We heard talk of
it. You see them talk about, you know, putting them
on stumps, you know, or something high, you know,
and beating them off like you did cattle. bit them
off like a deep kettle. None of your folks were ever
sold then? No, none of them ever was sold. You were
born right there and never did leave? Born right
there and stayed there until I was about nine, ten
years old, maybe even more. Stayed right there. We
didn't know where to go. Mom and them didn't know
where to go. You see, after she was over, just like
you turn something out, you know, didn't know
where to go. That's just where they stayed. Didn't
know where to go. Turned us out just like, you know,
he turned our cattle, I say. Anywhere to go. Do you
remember when the Civil War was being fought?
Well, I can't remember much about it, but I
remember this much. When Mr. Beckman was gone a
long time, looked like a long time, and I remember
the next morning when he got up. Now, don't knock
that back there. Well, we all got up and all of them
went to the house. Went to the house to see old
Master. And I thought old Master was dead, but it
wasn't he had been off to the war and come back. But
then I didn't know he was going to the war. I just
knew he was gone a long time. All the niggas
gathered around to see old Master again.
And old Master didn't tell you it was free. He
didn't tell you that? No, he didn't tell. They were
right there. I think now they said they'd wait
until six months out of that, six months, and turn
them loose on the 19th of June. That's why, you
know, you celebrate that day, colored folks.
Celebrate that day. Celebrate that
day. Missed that line, I missed it, you know. And
just catched it by a wrist this way, you know. Both
of them pushed down in the rocking chair. And when
Mr. Bethany come home, she was crying. And Mr.
Bethany asked her what was the matter, you know.
She told me that Martha Albert hurt her wrist. And
she asked her then, says, what you doing in this
house here hurting old Mr.? She said she wasn't
hurting old Mr. I hope she saw her down. Well, they
took that old woman, poor old woman, carried her in
the peach orchard and whipped her. And, you know,
just tied her hand this way, you know, around the
feature of the tree. I remember that just as well
looked like to me, I can't. And around the tree and
hooked her. And what she couldn't do wrong was just
kick her feet, you know, just kick her feet. But it
just had her clothes all down to her waist, you
know. It didn't have her plum naked, but it had her
clothes down to her waist. And every now and then
they'd hook her, you know, and then snuff the pipe
out on her, you know, just snuff pipe out on her. You
know, the embers in the pipe, where you'll see the
pipe smoking. Blow them out on? Mm-hmm. Good Lord,
him, mercy. Blow them out on. Did she scream? Yeah,
I think she was. I think she did. But you see, we were
glad to go out there. Well, it was, you know,
because our old Marshal was a whooper, and then
Uncle Saul. Uncle Saul was a whooper. She'd had an
overseer, Uncle Saul. Her papa was an overseer.
But he'd had a whooper. And whooped her, too. And
then he showed his whip on. Well, he whooped her so
then at night they had to grease her back. Grease
her back. I don't know what kind of grease they had,
but they sure greased her back at night, you know,
that way. They just greased her back. And so after
they whooped her so long, whooped her then so long
that way, they quit. They couldn't. Gave her her
dinner late that evening. They gave her her
dinner. She was hooked so bad then, you know, she
didn't want to eat, you know. If you put in the hook
you had for a day, you ain't want to eat. Oh, no.
Because a little child, you can hook a little child
now. He'll get mad, you know, and don't want to eat
nothing.
So I saw then he was going to hook my mama. He had a
brother, the oldest brother named Cal. And he was
going to hook my mother's boy. Packing water. And
she's gonna fight him. Is that right? Yes. She's
gonna fight him. You see, one portion of the people
belong to Mr. Bethany, and one portion, you know,
belong to, belong to his wife. Wife, you know, just
like, you know, you have a lot of niggas, you know,
and they give you a portion of them, and your wife a
portion of them. Her people give you a heap of them,
and then your people give you some. Well, that
makes two parts. You got a part, and your wife got a
part, you know, of colored folks, by the way. And so
Miss Adeline wouldn't let Uncle Saul whoop her.
That was her side, you know. That wasn't her
nigger. She wouldn't let Uncle Saul whoop her that
way. Well, then they called her Sassy nigger.
Sassy called Uncle Saul whoop her. About the boy
packing water. You know, he'd pack water, you
know, all day. And that Uncle Saul, if he stayed
late, you know, and when he got to the water where
Uncle Saul was, the old seal was, he'd just pitch it
out. Just pitch it out. That's the chance the
children could get to him. And he whooped him and
still let him. Oh. Yeah, he whooped him and still
let him. Now, and, uh, and, and, uh, so, Uncle
Jesse, you know, he wasn't, Stepdaddy, he wasn't,
wasn't, uh, he wasn't, now he's gonna get me away.
He, he wasn't born, he wasn't, he wasn't one of Mr.
Beckham's leaders. He was a Payne's. No,
Stepdaddy, yes, but he was a Payne's. Yeah, he was a
Payne's. And he'd do anything and he would come
with me. Come with me. And his head was red and he was
red. Where'd he come from? I think he come from
Louisiana, somewhere. Anyhow, he come
somewhere. I couldn't exactly tell where he come
from. Because my mama come from Mississippi. And
when he'd back up, you know, I don't know if y'all
ever see the corner of him. Yes, the one in the rail
fence. Yes, yes. He'd back up in that, and they
wouldn't help him. He'd get him a stick and keep him
off. Yes. And he was a great big old man, you know. He
wouldn't let them help him, you see. And the
monster wouldn't let him hurt him because he
wouldn't let the overseers. No, they'd whoop you.
The monster would make them whoop you when they see
you in the field. And they wouldn't let him whoop
them at all, wouldn't they? And the old monster
would tell them, rather than kill him or something
like that, don't hurt him. But don't kill him, but
whoop him. He wouldn't whoop him, I tell you. No, he
wouldn't whoop him. No, sir, he wouldn't whoop
him. Well, how would they punish him then? Give me a
year of corn? Give me a year of corn. That's like,
you know, you give me a year of corn, And that would
be for my dinner or my breakfast. When we come home
to dinner, he said he'd give me air corn. He said
he'd share it often, plow along and eat it. Just
plow along and eat it. Night comes, he'd give me air
corn. And that's the way they said it, you know,
punishing him, you know, wouldn't give him
nothing to eat. And so it looked like he was moving
along too slow, too fast with that, you know, too
good. Too good with that, you know, just giving him
corn. And his unit, you know, drinking water and
going just the same. That's why they wouldn't give
him none. Give him none. Wouldn't give him
nothing, you know, but let him drink water, you
know. And he lived just the same. And he lived with
Mama 32 years before he died. Before he died. And he
never did have a scar that the old boss put on him.
Did he talk like you all there? No, he had a broken
language. He had a broken language. Some kind of
broken language. I wonder what that was. I don't
know. So he was red-red, and his head was red-red.
His head was red-red. And my sister, we had
sisters, you know, half-sisters, you know, to
him. Well, they were red and their head red. No.
Where did they live? They lived in Belleville,
over in Belleville. They do? Oh, yeah, Bellville.
So we ought to go over and see them some day. Yeah, we
go through Bellville. So we'll go over and see
them. Well, uh, wonder what they paid for this,
this, your stepdaddy. How come? Well, paid was,
you know, he was a payer. Just to pay them was what he
called. But you see, I don't know what they paid for
him. They bought him, you know. And I guess he was
worth so much they didn't want to hurt him. Didn't
want to hurt him. And, uh, You see, he had blown to
two sets, folks. Two sets of people, you know. You
see, he would blow to the pains, then he'd blow to
some people, you know, them, but they all stayed
with him. You see, he wouldn't do like me and sell
them. Just sell them, you know, just like, you
know, I was a little nigga, you know, I wouldn't act
like you'd sell me somebody else. I wouldn't act
like you wouldn't be fighting, knocking with a
good hand. You'd sell me somebody else. That's
what I would do here, baby. I see. That's where they
done them. Well, what about getting married? How
did they go about marrying the slaves? Well, they
told me to jump over the broom backer. I don't know.
They told me to jump over the broom backer. I don't
know. Well, did they have church? Did the slaves
have church? No. I never remember no church. Mama
said, Raleigh Church. I didn't remember that part
of Raleigh Church. It would have been a tub. A tub of
water sitting just like this thing is, you know.
And that would catch your voice. And they would
have church around that tub. All of them get around
the tub. Get around the tub. Old Master didn't want
them having church. They don't have no church. No,
didn't have a church. And Old Master come along
with one of them. One of them was there having
church around the tub, and he's down praying. And
so he's down there praying, just praying. Old
Master come in, he just praying. He come in, he did,
and told him, get up from there. He didn't get up. He
just prayed. He said, Old Master, come this way
with me. He quick prayed and then asked me, Lord,
have mercy on me, Old Master. Lord, have mercy on
me, Old Master. Lord, have mercy on me. I said, with
my shoulder, with a bull hook. He said, have mercy
on me, Old Master. I said, Old Master. He wouldn't
get up and just flinch. He just prayed for Old
Master. So old Marston stepped back and said, I'm
going to mind to kick you naked. I'm going to mind to
kick you naked. We could have him just stop praying
and know he had to go home and live and pray. He'd go
home and live and pray. Because he wouldn't stop.
Well, that was through the Lord, you know. That's
because of that. Yeah, the Lord works a lot of
things. Yes, because the Lord suffered him to stay
down there and get that hope and then pray. You
know, just keep on praying. I think I jumped up. I
don't know. It seemed like me I jumped up. Johnny,
that business of
hiring some of the Negroes, the good hands, you
know, Good women, good men, going off and breeding
them like cattle. Do you remember anything about
that? No, I didn't know anything. They wouldn't
let children know that, you know, but I heard it
after. After that, they'd do that. But see, when
they're coming up, they wouldn't let us know
nothing about it, nothing like that. But they said
that was sure so. You know, just like a big,
fine-looking woman, a big, fine-looking man, you
know. Old boss wants, you know, children from him,
you know. They just find him up in the house or
somewhere, you know, going off and leaving him in
there. They wanted to breed them like they were
hogs or horses, something like that, I said. That
sounds like it. Yes, sir. And they said that's what
they used to do in slavery time. Did they whoop the
slaves much? Do you remember how they whooped
them? The biggest whooping ever I knew, the gift
they gave Martha Albert. The biggest whooping
ever I knew. Mr. Benson, they didn't whoop his
niggas much. They had to do something like this
thing. you know, bad for him to hook them. Well, did
the slaves ever try to slip away? Did they ever try
to run off? No, not known on the place where we was. I
never heard them say they run off from there. You
know, old place, I heard them stay in the woods and
so long until they'd wear the clothes off and slip
up. Now, I heard Mama say when she was a girl, When
she was a girl, she brought me sipping. When she was
a girl, there was one old woman run off. She did run
off. The beaters' association run off. And every
night she'd sleep home and somebody would have her
something to eat. And she'd get that vittles and go
on back in the woods, go on back and stay in the
woods. You know, just they're telling it over, you
know, because you see, I don't know what their
name, see so-and-so, ever see them? Say no. Well,
you tell them if they come home, ring out with them.
Ring out with them if they come home. Well, I'd be
all the way, you know, they'd come. Say once this
man stayed in the woods so long, tell you his hair on
him long like a dog. Just grow up, you know, and
stayed in the woods. Just stayed in the woods. And
they couldn't get him out. Would any of them run off
and get plumb free? Did you ever hear anybody talk
about them? I hear them talk about them going off,
you know, going off to places where they're free.
But here's what I hear her say. I didn't know that.
She said just like there'd be some white people,
you know, would come along, you know, and he'd just
get them off, you know, take them, carry them off
where there wouldn't be no slave or wouldn't be
beat up, you know. and came off right away. There
was two or three of them that said that white folk
would catch them, three or four, you know, colored
people off right away. Peek up the children. They
used to go in wagons, you know, go around wagons
with covers on them. I've seen covers since I've
been beaten up in a wagon with covers on them, just
take them and go on them. When I was a child, I seen a
little boy, a man jumped out of the old covered
wagon And caught the child. Caught him. And got for
a bill with the child. Well, I don't know. But they
caught him. Caught the child. And I had a
grandchild. They took him off. Is that right? Who
took him off? I don't know. They took him off. What
do you know? Yes, they took that child off. Mom
didn't have whatever they wanted. They took it
off.
They took it off. But they got it at the time. Well,
can you remember what happened when they set you
free? Do you remember what the... Can you remember
how the old master acted? No, so I can't remember
that, you know, can't remember that. But I
remember, you know, time to give them a big dinner,
you know, on the 19th. Is that right? On the 19th,
you know, that's called it. They said they'd have
to give them a big dinner on the 19th. But now we
didn't know. I don't hide the other side of the
folks, you know, we didn't know. They just
thought, you know, just feeding us, you know, just
had a long table. and just had just a little of
everything you want to eat, you know, and drink,
you know. And they said that was on the 19th, and
everything you want to eat and drink. Well, you
see, I didn't know what that was for. I just, you
know, it wasn't wise like it is now. Anything a
child six, seven years old can tell you. That's
right. It wasn't wise. That's the way they done it.
It was a big dinner, Mr. Besson and them. Mr.
Bethany's
granddaughter stayed right across town. And she
got a daughter to stay out here in the country, our
young mistress. Out here in the country. I
would have left her. Have you ever been down in the
brass bottoms any? Yeah, that's right. I stayed
down at the bottom. I didn't say stay right down in
it, but I didn't say I'd wait down there. I'd wait
down there. I cropped in there. And when I moved
over here, I just moved out of the bottom, waiting
right on the banks of the river. And you don't make
some crops down there. Yes, I couldn't go close to
the river. On account, you know, afraid the horses
would get scraped, look down in the river and run
off with me. And I used to plow. Yeah, I used to work
down there at Bradley's Bottom. On whose place
were you working then? Payne's? No, I'd been
working on Payne's, but I worked then on the book
place. It was called the book place. Austin, you
know, Austin Children, I called it. I had worked at
Austin Children then. It was called the book
place. I had worked at the Austin Children
schools, you know. And that's where I worked at
about four or five years. Down there on that book
place. They're claiming some parts of the
Bottoms, they won't let the folks leave the place
they're living on. Colored folks. You know, just
make them stay there and work year after year.
Well, that must be some way down the Bottom
somewhere. Well, down there on the book place,
Some place in the world, they let you go just as far
and dead as you want to go, you know. And then see,
they know your crop wasn't going to clutch, you
know. And so next year you had to stay to wake out to
death. If it didn't, you know, take all your
horses, cows, and everything away from you. Maybe
it was nothing. Maybe it was nothing. You see,
that's why they keep them there, you know, that
way. Just so they, you know, they could get
everything they had if they didn't wake. And good
way for some of them to just take and give
everything a hand up and going off.